The data source is the Police Use of Force Data obtained from City of Seattle Open Data (https://data.seattle.gov/Public-Safety/Use-Of-Force/ppi5-g2bj). My visualizations seek to answer the question: how has police use of force changed from 2015 to 2022 across different races? For both visualizations, I used stacked bar graphs to represent the "frequency" across different races (indicated by color), for the ease of comparing the overall trend while not losing individual race information. I generated both graphs in Tableau.

In the earnest graph, I intend to represent the true data in the most direct and earnest manner. To maintain the integrity of the dataset, I included all the data points, including unspecified races and races to whom the use of force was rare such as Native Hawaiian. I have also excluded months where the data might not be complete, namely April 2022, in which the data is still updating so may not represent the whole picture. The title indicates when the data was collected and the range; the use of the month in the x-axis seeks to capture the trend in each individual month, so some insights might be revealed. For example, after George Floyd's death in 2020, there were increased social activities including vandalism, where the police use of force occurred. That's why the spike occurred. Overall, we can observe from the graph, the police use of force has decreased in general, especially for African Americans (represented in red).

In the deceptive graph, I manipulated the dataset to convey an untrue message: police brutality has grown in Seattle during these years and the target is usually African Americans. First, I used a misleading title. Although the data itself concerns the use of police force, it is not necessarily "police brutality", which by definition is "the excessive and unwarranted use of force by law enforcement" per Wikipedia. Second, I transformed the data by using the rank of the frequency but titled the y-axis as the frequency of "police brutality" happening. Thus, instead of representing the data, the trend shown in the picture is completely the reverse of the truth. Third, I intentionally excluded some data to enhance the comparisons. For one, I did not include races for whom the use of force is rare, and I did not include the unspecified races. This is a misrepresentation of the data because unspecified race may mean a lot in interpreting the difference across races, and minority races also deserve attention. For another, I deleted some of the bars in the middle of the graph, to force the trend to look better. For example, I deleted the bars for Asians in June and October 2019, so the trend appears more in support of the fake argument: police brutality has grown in Seattle during these years and the target is usually African Americans. Moreover, in this graph, I filtered the gender to only include male and female, which is also a misrepresentation of the true dataset. Fourth, a minor issue but still important, I included April 2022 which has incomplete data. This helps getting a lower rank but a higher rank value. When represented in graph, this adds to the misleading nature of the graph.

Overall, my graphs seek to answer the same question but they reveal totally different answers. The deceptive graph contains a lot of incomplete and incorrect information, and has a strong implication for anarchism or the hatred toward the police by instigating the seemingly true racial problems. When used in practice, the deceptive graph might even imply that the radical social movements such as vandalism after Floyd's death are effective in bringing down police brutality, whereby encouraging more disrespect for the police. By contrast, in the earnest visualization, we can observe that the police use of force is actually going down recently, especially for African Americans. And when radical social movements occurred, the police had to react with force. To sum up, a good and earnest visualization is essential for understanding a subject matter.